---
title: hi
date: 2022-04-10 22:18:17 -0700
categories:
- meta
---

Hi!

Welcome to the new blog.
This site will be used for personal rambling and Fumohouse updates.

I know that blogging is such an uncool format nowadays
(and has been basically replaced by other social media),
and also that not many people, if any, will read this.

I don't care though. Blogging is cool.

Thanks for reading!

In case you care, here are some details over this blog's making,
and some things about the blog that this site supersedes.

(and if you couldn't tell, things will get technical pretty frequently here.)

## The old blog

I poured way too much time of mine into a blog site (framework?) and file host pretty much built from the ground up, written in Node.JS (yuck).
At that time, I had the bright idea of making the blog its own Git server, and pushing articles through that,
where they would be linted (checked for formatting errors) and processed.
This would also allow for a "convenient" upload system as well as a way for the site to serve old versions of articles (because transparency).

While I still must say it was a cool idea, in practice, it was more implementation/hosting effort than it was worth.
No good Git server implementations existed in Node (at the time), so I had to adapt an existing one to work for my needs.
After dealing with several Git protocol issues, and spending hours trying to figure out how servers rejected commits,
I couldn't help but feel that the blog was an unstable project that would topple with the slightest disturbance.

There's probably also a hundred bad decisions I made along the way that I can only realize in retrospect
(for example, possibly the use of MongoDB, but I'm not too sure).
Oh well.

The old blog lived on my main desktop, hosted on an installation of Windows 10 Home Insiders (ew) directly on port 80.
I didn't bother with nginx or anything like that, because why use that when Node.JS does everything?

The site died when I ditched my aging and expiring Insider build of Windows for an installation of Fedora 34
(which is an entire adventure on its own).

I did learn a few things about the Git protocol and such, but overall,
trying to host a dedicated blog on my own hardware was probably a losing battle to begin with,
considering that most people (including me) underutilize their blogs anyway.

## This blog

I decided for a much more simplistic approach this time around.
Instead of bothering to host this site myself, I just decided to use Github Pages and Jekyll to do it for me.

("fun" fact: [jekyll-now](https://github.com/barryclark/jekyll-now) was one of the first things I forked on my original Github account in like 5th grade.
I didn't have anything to write about back then, but it's interesting to be back on the Jekyll train)

While the functionalities of the old and new blogs are separate in a few ways,
it will probably mean very little difference in practice,
with the added benefit that I will hopefully have fewer headaches over stupid problems
(hoping that Github Pages will handle my Jekyll setup without issue, fingers crossed).

Here's to the 3 posts I'll write for this blog!
